README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://development.lintra.nighttimedev.com/assets/media/img/ntd_black.svg" data-canonical-src="https://development.lintra.nighttimedev.com/assets/media/img/ntd_black.svg" height="80" />  
</p>

# LA.MA<img src="https://i.imgur.com/g3xXGSP.png" data-canonical-src="https://i.imgur.com/g3xXGSP.png" height="35" />  

*A PHP based Gameserver management Interface for LAN Tournaments.*  

This repo is a new approach to one of my older projects called "rushB", which got deleted and is no longer available.    

Get the full Manual / Documentation [here](https://github.com/nighttimedev/manual-lama)  

![Badge_License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badege_Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badge_Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badge_LastCommit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nighttimedev/lama.svg)  
![Badge_ClosedIssues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badge_OpenIssues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/nighttimedev/lama.svg)  
![Badge_Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/nighttimedev/lama.svg?style=social)


**First things first:** There are some poeple who helped me to develop this project.  
Special Thanks to
- https://github.com/jonaslagoni for explaning me his Repository https://github.com/jonaslagoni/csgoLiveServer  
- https://github.com/xpaw I'm using his Repo https://github.com/xPaw/PHP-Source-Query to RCON / Query the Gameservers

I've developed this to manage our CS:GO torunament @ DIE-LAN 2019. You can vsit us at https://die-lan.party  
The whole Code is filled with comments from my side, so everyone can understand what was going on in my head. I think this makes my project suitable for education / learning processes.  
Unfortunately, my SourcePawn knowledge is very limited. Thats also due to the lack of documentations about this language...  
I can't fix major Bugs if they come from xPaw's Query. But so far I haven't seen any.  
 
## How does it look?  
![Screenshot1](https://i.imgur.com/kfplPAT.png)  
![Screenshot2](https://i.imgur.com/0Bmilmj.jpg)  
![Screenshot3](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new_2.PNG)  
![Screenshot4](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new.PNG)  
![Screenshot5](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new_3.PNG)  
![Screenshot6](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new_4.PNG)
## Featureeeees  
- Log file to give admins the ability to check out whats happening / who logged in
- Shoutbox which enables Users a simple communication  
- Installer to set up SQL completely automated  
- Manage ALL Gameservers which are based on the source engine  
- NO server-sided Plugins needed (maybe coming in future updates as optional feature for server performace and so on)  
- Good Performance thanks to a lot of testing and Code review  
- Intuitive Frontend  
- Works even on small devices (Phones only in Landscape, not portrait. Maybe also coming in the future.)  
- User-Management  
- Version-Managing and on the fly updating (Still in Development!)  
- Inclusion of FontAwesome for an easy to use but yet beautiful UI  
- Active Development  
- Customizable UI / Themes  

## Supported Games

|Game ID |Game                              |Query |RCON |Note  |
|--------|----------------------------------|------|-----|------|
| -      | All HL1/HL2 games and mods       | yes  | yes |      |
| -      | Minecraft                        | no   | yes |      |
| 10     | Counter-Strike 1.6               | yes  | yes |      |
| 440    | Team Fortress 2                  | yes  | yes |      |
| 550    | Left 4 Dead 2                    | yes  | yes |      |
| 730    | Counter-Strike: Global Offensive | yes  | yes | For full access: host_name_store 1; host_info_show 2; host_players_show 2 |
| 4000   | Garry's Mod                      | yes  | yes |      |
| 107410 | Arma 3                           | yes  | no  | +1 to the Port |
| 115300 | CoD: MW 3                        | yes  | yes |      |
| 211820 | Starbound                        | yes  | yes |      |
| 244850 | Space Engeneers                  | yes  | no  | +1 to the Port |
| 252490 | Rust                             | yes  | no  |      |
| 282440 | Quake Live                       | yes  | no  |      |
| 346110 | ARK: survival Evolved            | yes  | yes |      |  

It is possible that even more games are supported. There are a lot more to test...  

## How can I check rather a game is supported?  
If the game is not listed above, it MIGHT be supported anyways.  
Add your server to your favourites in Steam server browser, and if Steam can display information about your server, then the protocol is supported.

## Developing-Process
All my test-runs, as well as troubleshooting, take(s) / took place on either my Laptop (Acer Predator Helios 300), or one of my Dell Poweredge R710's at home.  
Both systems use VMs, which are running on Debian 9, 64 bit with Apache2 and PHP 7.3.  
I used an external SQL Database, hosted by Manitu.de, for all of my tests.  
You can check out https://www.manitu.de if you need Webhosting for your project(s), I recommend them!  
## What it needs
In order to set-up the LAMA interface, you need:  
- A Webserver (I tested on Apache2)  
- A valid PHP installation (I tested on 7.3)  
- A SQL Database
#### Optional:   
If you want to have the "forgot password" function, you need to hava a Postix server installed on your system, so php can send Mails.   
## Install
- Go to your Webservers Filepath (Apache default /var/www/html) and clone the Repo  
```sh
cd /var/www/html
git clone https://github.com/nighttimedev/lama
```  
- If you have to do any additional installtions (like PHP), it's strongly recommended to update & upgrade first! 
```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```  
- If you need to install apache2  
```sh
sudo apt-get install apache2
```
- If you need to install PHP  
```sh
sudo apt install lsb-release apt-transport-https ca-certificates
sudo wget -O /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/php.gpg https://packages.sury.org/php/apt.gpg
echo "deb https://packages.sury.org/php/ $(lsb_release -sc) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/php7.3.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt-get install php7.3 php-pear
```
- To check your PHP Installation
```sh
php -v
```  
#### LAMA installation / configuration  
After you have installed everything you need on the Server, you can install and configure the Server Manager itself.  
The Rootdirectory will be called "$root" in this guide.  
- Step 1  
Add the $root/config.php and fill in the SQL Data.  
config.php has to look like that:  
```php
<?php
  return [
    'SQLhost' => '',
    'SQLdbname' => '',
    'SQLuser' => '',
    'SQLpass' => '',
    'timezone' => 'Europe/Berlin',
    'errorReporting' => 0,
    'imageDB' => 'https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/maps/',
    'serverping' => 0
  ];
?>
```
- Step 2  
Set your timezone in $root/config.php. All timezones here: https://www.php.net/manual/de/timezones.php. This is  neccessary in order to get the correct time (for example in the log file).    
- Step 3  
Set all other minor Variables, such as error reporting, in the config file.  
- Step 4  
Go to $root/install in your webbrowser to start the automatic configuration process. IF any errors occur, they SHOULD be described well in order to tell you how to fix it. If you have any problems, feel free to contact me via the Mail which is given at the end of the readme.  
- Step 5  
Done! Have fun adding and managing Source-Based gameservers :)  
If you have installed the Server manager for the first time, the default root Login is: root@root.root / lamaManager!  
IMPORTANT: Change the Root Login-Data ASAP. Otherwise everybody, who knows about this repo, can log in as root!
  
## Bugs, Issues, ...
If you get any errors, which are definitely not caused by yourself, I'd love to get your error report.  
Write me an E-Mail to: git@nighttimedev.com, with 'Error: git/lama' as Subject.
<br>
<br>
<br>  
Developed with :heart: from <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/ba/Flag_of_Germany.svg/1280px-Flag_of_Germany.svg.png" data-canonical-src="https://gyazo.com/eb5c5741b6a9a16c692170a41a49c858.png" width="25" height="15" />

Commit message:

updated config and readme + shoutbox can be switched of thru config

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://development.lintra.nighttimedev.com/assets/media/img/ntd_black.svg" data-canonical-src="https://development.lintra.nighttimedev.com/assets/media/img/ntd_black.svg" height="80" />  
</p>

# LA.MA<img src="https://i.imgur.com/g3xXGSP.png" data-canonical-src="https://i.imgur.com/g3xXGSP.png" height="35" />  

*A PHP based Gameserver management Interface for LAN Tournaments.*  

This repo is a new approach to one of my older projects called "rushB", which got deleted and is no longer available.    

Get the full Manual / Documentation [here](https://github.com/nighttimedev/manual-lama)  

![Badge_License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badege_Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badge_Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badge_LastCommit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nighttimedev/lama.svg)  
![Badge_ClosedIssues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/nighttimedev/lama.svg)
![Badge_OpenIssues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/nighttimedev/lama.svg)  
![Badge_Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/nighttimedev/lama.svg?style=social)


**First things first:** There are some poeple who helped me to develop this project.  
Special Thanks to
- https://github.com/jonaslagoni for explaning me his Repository https://github.com/jonaslagoni/csgoLiveServer  
- https://github.com/xpaw I'm using his Repo https://github.com/xPaw/PHP-Source-Query to RCON / Query the Gameservers

I've developed this to manage our CS:GO torunament @ DIE-LAN 2019. You can vsit us at https://die-lan.party  
The whole Code is filled with comments from my side, so everyone can understand what was going on in my head. I think this makes my project suitable for education / learning processes.  
Unfortunately, my SourcePawn knowledge is very limited. Thats also due to the lack of documentations about this language...  
I can't fix major Bugs if they come from xPaw's Query. But so far I haven't seen any.  
 
## How does it look?  
![Screenshot1](https://i.imgur.com/kfplPAT.png)  
![Screenshot2](https://i.imgur.com/0Bmilmj.jpg)  
![Screenshot3](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new_2.PNG)  
![Screenshot4](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new.PNG)  
![Screenshot5](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new_3.PNG)  
![Screenshot6](https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/lama_new_4.PNG)
## Featureeeees  
- Log file to give admins the ability to check out whats happening / who logged in
- Shoutbox which enables Users a simple communication  
- Installer to set up SQL completely automated  
- Manage ALL Gameservers which are based on the source engine  
- NO server-sided Plugins needed (maybe coming in future updates as optional feature for server performace and so on)  
- Good Performance thanks to a lot of testing and Code review  
- Intuitive Frontend  
- Works even on small devices (Phones only in Landscape, not portrait. Maybe also coming in the future.)  
- User-Management  
- Version-Managing and on the fly updating (Still in Development!)  
- Inclusion of FontAwesome for an easy to use but yet beautiful UI  
- Active Development  
- Customizable UI / Themes  

## Supported Games

|Game ID |Game                              |Query |RCON |Note  |
|--------|----------------------------------|------|-----|------|
| -      | All HL1/HL2 games and mods       | yes  | yes |      |
| -      | Minecraft                        | no   | yes |      |
| 10     | Counter-Strike 1.6               | yes  | yes |      |
| 440    | Team Fortress 2                  | yes  | yes |      |
| 550    | Left 4 Dead 2                    | yes  | yes |      |
| 730    | Counter-Strike: Global Offensive | yes  | yes | For full access: host_name_store 1; host_info_show 2; host_players_show 2 |
| 4000   | Garry's Mod                      | yes  | yes |      |
| 107410 | Arma 3                           | yes  | no  | +1 to the Port |
| 115300 | CoD: MW 3                        | yes  | yes |      |
| 211820 | Starbound                        | yes  | yes |      |
| 244850 | Space Engeneers                  | yes  | no  | +1 to the Port |
| 252490 | Rust                             | yes  | no  |      |
| 282440 | Quake Live                       | yes  | no  |      |
| 346110 | ARK: survival Evolved            | yes  | yes |      |  

It is possible that even more games are supported. There are a lot more to test...  

## How can I check rather a game is supported?  
If the game is not listed above, it MIGHT be supported anyways.  
Add your server to your favourites in Steam server browser, and if Steam can display information about your server, then the protocol is supported.

## Developing-Process
All my test-runs, as well as troubleshooting, take(s) / took place on either my Laptop (Acer Predator Helios 300), or one of my Dell Poweredge R710's at home.  
Both systems use VMs, which are running on Debian 9, 64 bit with Apache2 and PHP 7.3.  
I used an external SQL Database, hosted by Manitu.de, for all of my tests.  
You can check out https://www.manitu.de if you need Webhosting for your project(s), I recommend them!  
## What it needs
In order to set-up the LAMA interface, you need:  
- A Webserver (I tested on Apache2)  
- A valid PHP installation (I tested on 7.3)  
- A SQL Database
#### Optional:   
If you want to have the "forgot password" function, you need to hava a Postix server installed on your system, so php can send Mails.   
## Install
- Go to your Webservers Filepath (Apache default /var/www/html) and clone the Repo  
```sh
cd /var/www/html
git clone https://github.com/nighttimedev/lama
```  
- If you have to do any additional installtions (like PHP), it's strongly recommended to update & upgrade first! 
```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```  
- If you need to install apache2  
```sh
sudo apt-get install apache2
```
- If you need to install PHP  
```sh
sudo apt install lsb-release apt-transport-https ca-certificates
sudo wget -O /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/php.gpg https://packages.sury.org/php/apt.gpg
echo "deb https://packages.sury.org/php/ $(lsb_release -sc) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/php7.3.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt-get install php7.3 php-pear
```
- To check your PHP Installation
```sh
php -v
```  
#### LAMA installation / configuration  
After you have installed everything you need on the Server, you can install and configure the Server Manager itself.  
The Rootdirectory will be called "$root" in this guide.  
- Step 1  
Add the $root/config.php and fill in the SQL Data.  
config.php has to look like that:  
```php
<?php
  return [
    'SQLhost' => '', // The Address / IP to the SQL Server
    'SQLdbname' => '', // The Name of the database
    'SQLuser' => '', // The username for your databse
    'SQLpass' => '', // Password connected to the user defined above
    'timezone' => 'Europe/Berlin', // Timezone is needed for correct timestamps (for example in the log)
    'errorReporting' => 0, // Do you want to see error notices inside of lama, or do you want to hide them?
    'imageDB' => 'https://cdn.nighttimedev.com/images/lama/maps/', // The Database for Map images in /plugins/servers. I recommend to use it like in this example
    'serverping' => 0, // Do you want /plugins/servers to try to ping Servers before they get added to the database? I recommend to leave this on false, since a lot of servers have pinging disabled because of DOS attacks. If you use lama for local servers, you can set it to true, so you get a message if you made provided a wrong / invalid IP.
    'shoutbox' => 0 // Toggles the Shoutbox on or off
  ];
?>
```
- Step 2  
Set your timezone in $root/config.php. All timezones here: https://www.php.net/manual/de/timezones.php. This is  neccessary in order to get the correct time (for example in the log file).    
- Step 3  
Set all other minor Variables, such as error reporting, in the config file.  
- Step 4  
Go to $root/install in your webbrowser to start the automatic configuration process. IF any errors occur, they SHOULD be described well in order to tell you how to fix it. If you have any problems, feel free to contact me via the Mail which is given at the end of the readme.  
- Step 5  
Done! Have fun adding and managing Source-Based gameservers :)  
If you have installed the Server manager for the first time, the default root Login is: root@root.root / lamaManager!  
IMPORTANT: Change the Root Login-Data ASAP. Otherwise everybody, who knows about this repo, can log in as root!
  
## Bugs, Issues, ...
If you get any errors, which are definitely not caused by yourself, I'd love to get your error report.  
Write me an E-Mail to: git@nighttimedev.com, with 'Error: git/lama' as Subject.
<br>
<br>
<br>  
Developed with :heart: from <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/ba/Flag_of_Germany.svg/1280px-Flag_of_Germany.svg.png" data-canonical-src="https://gyazo.com/eb5c5741b6a9a16c692170a41a49c858.png" width="25" height="15" />
